hi guys I'm Ed leak managing director of
Midas media we're a uk-based digital
marketing agency uh here to talk about
Google deleting the right side ads on
their search result Pages um yeah that's
me uh should have been smiling in the
photo never mind so what's happened
Don't Panic right rail as it's uh known
the adverts on the right hand side have
been removed as of uh mid Feb of this
year
so Google standpoint on this was they
actually came from a position of
improving usability for their customers
I you and I and everyone else who uses
search engines um such as theirs so
their position of
usability doesn't really wash with me
entirely yes it's now replicating and
mimicking a a mobile search result
however let's face it um AdWords is
Google's biggest single point of Revenue
so
anything they do in this space and any
changes they make to AdWords is for one
uh one key reason and that's their their
revenue their bottom line and of
course excuse me their uh advertisers
sort of come in at a second Pace because
they know for a fact that whilst people
are using search engines and searching
they will have an ad platform and people
will spend money to advertise
particularly the big boys
so as I've just said no text ads on the
right hand side
anymore uh Google will now serve four
ads at the top as you can see in an
example there so there used to be three
ads at the top and a rail to the right
of five ads but now we've got uh four at
the top in place of three and three at
the bottom so we've gone from 11 ads top
right and bottom in total to now a
maximum of seven which is a a
considerable reduction of
course the right hand side still allows
and still will display product listing
ads essentially Google shopping and some
select knowledge panel ads um which are
those information type panels on the
right hand side you may see when you
search your favorite film
star album
Etc okay why why do you think Google
have done that now Ed PPC is Mega Hot
Space PPC is competitive it's where the
money's at uh Google Bing lots of other
people they understand that people want
to spend on paid search because search
intent uh is one of the strongest
drivers for sales particularly in
e-commerce
so uh Google's also facing Fierce
competition from um many many rivals and
as I said AdWords is their single
biggest Revenue stream so they're
they're out to protect it let's you know
let's not mince
words so another positive for Google is
of course
less competition of their own ads I.E
the top versus the right so the the
usability issue you know less Choice
less confusion just keeping the ads top
bottom uh by increasing um the ad space
at the top by a third having four
instead of three ads they push organic
results down that increases uh
click-through rate for paid ads and
therefore more clicks equals more spend
equals more Revenue to Google
brilliant uh
I think a couple key reasons why they've
done this um so
Microsoft you might be wondering why
Microsoft's in that list thinking well
Bing's a bit sort of an AO run think
about Windows 10 clever move so
Microsoft are have been pushing and
still are pushing Windows 10 free of
charge as a free
upgrade what happens with Windows 10
default browser internet explorer
default search engine for Internet
Explorer
Bing what does that do to
Google reduces its share of the market
so very clever from Microsoft wise move
it's essentially bringing them further
into play okay a few percentage points
here and there may not seem massive but
in this market we're talking billions in
revenue and of course Facebook thorn in
the side of well let's face it many
companies but particularly Google
because Facebook is it's behavioral
based um clever algorithmic based
advertising but it's super super potent
hugely detailed and targetable but more
importantly than anything there's over a
billion people on Facebook massive
audience massive uh uh Power in terms of
advertising and I'm pretty confident
that uh they're pissing Google
off and then there the also sort of
tertiary Market as you could call it
it's sort of the content ad delivery
Network such as you might seen them
outbrain and tabula and so on and so
forth so they cut into Google's Display
Network again bit of a pain for Google
um and yeah not ideal so looking on the
bright
side people say bad news first but let's
go for the good news um and then we'll
take all the bad news so good news uh
Google's revenue is going to increase
off the back of this um good news for
who
uh not you and I never mind um pla's and
shopping ads they're going to get fresh
they're going to get revitalized by this
there there's less competition on the
right hand side now so essentially
Google have made the ads uh shopping ads
of bom um more productive more effective
because they're not uh there's less um
decisions to be made at the top there so
top spots of course pushing down organic
removing the right hand
side you're going to see one thing at
the top and that's ads so there's going
to be a high click-through rate um which
is a win you know if you're an adverti
are in the top one two three maybe
fourth position you're going to get more
clicks
now and sorry SEO out there and organic
search in general you're getting pushed
further and further off the page it's
inevitable it was always coming it's
only going to get worse okay so now the
bad news
and a lot of people in the industry
would disagree with what I'm about to
say but I believe there's going to be
more pressure on bids for the single
reason that as people slowly react to
these changes bids will go up so if you
if you strip out over half the
advertising positions on the right hand
side and you replace it with
one then you've got the same number of
people trying to compete for Less space
yes you could argue that the right hand
side got a lot less clicks than top
three spots so it's sort of like a a 90
versus 10% Ru in that top spots got 90%
of the clicks and right hand side got
10% maybe 15 20 at a push so actually by
Google adding an extra third to the top
um then you you know it sort of balances
it out but I I just can't see it I think
over time we're going to see pressure it
may be 5 10% in in bids but at the end
of the day if you're using AdWords on a
low margin product you you may feel the
pinch and I think particularly smaller
advertisers who can't raise their fourth
position in you know sorry the
traditional fourth positions down the
right hand side and Beyond if they can't
raise now into the new top um they're
just going to get pushed out their
budget's going to going to fail them so
you can combat this of course you can be
more selective in what you advertise and
just go for your your high margin or
your your top sellers or if you're a
service business just literally focus on
the keywords that have brought
conversions and forget everything else
but that's not really you know not going
to be ideal for everyone the other
losers and no disrespect but they're
always losers people who just don't
manage and optimize their accounts uh
you know payperclick is not cheap uh if
you don't optimize you are literally
throwing away hundreds thousands tens of
thousands of pounds it's you know
stupid and this this is a an interesting
one people who should I say businesses
who rely heavily or only on
AdWords and why do I say that's bad news
for them well this is from a a business
strategy position um Google is in charge
they've got the rules any AD platform
that you use they write the rule book so
if you're only using one p you know one
strategy one channel for marketing you
are at their whim uh if they change
anything it changes your business model
overnight so we need to look at tackling
that if you're one of these people
that's got maybe one two or a push
marketing channels then I'm going to be
producing a few videos to show you how
to tackle that and fix that because
that's a a dodgy position it's a bit I
would be worried so don't do it let's
fix it anyway subscribe blah we'll sort
that out so how do we fix this how do we
combat this situation it's pretty
straightforward to say but it's probably
more complex to to um apply however add
preview and diagnosis
so you're probably thinking Ed how does
that fix my situation what I mean by
this is um you need to be looking and
trolling through your ads and making
sure that your ads are a in the top
three four spots I mean I I personally
would try and bid three upwards not four
I think four is going to be the the new
sort of dead zone uh and you're too
close to dropping off to the bottom and
quite frankly whoever clicks on the
bottom two or three
ads no no hands going up so yeah looking
at your ads now seeing where they where
they uh serve and we need to make sure
that all the ad extensions you can use
are now being used so things like site
links uh callouts review extensions so
on and so forth they essentially extend
the the shape and form and size of your
ad and if your competitors aren't doing
it they will do eventually they make
your ad bigger essentially so you need
to be doing that you need to be
previewing your ads making sure you're
you're up there and you're pairing and
looking good strong got all your your uh
ad extensions running Brill attract
those
clicks that will mean that you don't
just have to pay more because one tactic
we we collectively as as advertisers
don't want to see is everyone paying
more money that only helps one person
and sorry one entity and that is Google
it doesn't help us all if uh we're all
just bidding up to the nines just to get
to the top so instead of bidding up
improve the one overarching factor that
reduces your bids and that's your
quality score um essentially relevance
of the advert to the search term trigger
in the ad and to the landing page there
after so I'm going to do a video on
essentially hacking quality
score has a bit of a sort of trendy word
hacking isn't it but yeah anyway I'm
going to do a video after this about how
to get the most out of quality score and
essentially how to drive down your cost
per click um and essentially get rid of
all the crap in your account so finally
we got consider other networks as I said
on the previous slide if you're relying
on Google Alone um or should I say
Google search then you need to test some
budget
elsewhere and the tactic I use of our
clients is essentially you slice off a
little bit of budget so if you're
spending five grand a month 10 20 100
million whatever it may be um just take
a a sliver you know 1 to 5% or maybe
more obviously it balls down to your
current return on investment from from
Google ads and and margins Etc how much
can you afford to test elsewhere
so I'd say as a minimum you want to be
testing a percent or two and just use it
for
exploration and don't think it's going
to be an immediate win but you're going
out here to test on other platforms to
make sure that you can actually do
business in your your business scales
across other platforms that aren't just
AdWords because next time they change
the rules it could really screw you so
there are loads of platforms out there
Facebook massive obvious choice uh
Facebook now integ integrates their ad
um platform with uh in
and to be honest the the behavioral uh
information and demographic information
Facebook has on us all is is quite
stunning from an advertiser's
perspective you can get so granular and
and place your ads so precisely that
Facebook's really potent if you do it
well um I might do a few videos on that
Pinterest again it depends on the
context of your business but uh you know
an interior design company or uh a lot
of retailers can do well on Pinterest
Twitter I'd say arguably is better for
B2B in terms of lead gen campaigns
because they have uh essentially lead
capture card
ads it's not I wouldn't say as cost
effective as Facebook the audience is
20% of the size the targeting is not as
rich and as as um useful but it's still
worth a punt I haven't actually put
LinkedIn on here which I've just
realized um the reason being uh b2c
LinkedIn uh not not easy B2B LinkedIn
decent but my God LinkedIn expensive
Christ what you know the the cost per
clicks astronomical when we've done some
tests so we actually get better results
in terms of um return on investment from
Facebook and other of the platforms yes
LinkedIn converts quite well but in
terms of overall cost
it's kind of a red herring so you see
these decent conversion numbers but then
when you realize what you've paid for
them uh I don't know I I I'm on the
fence with LinkedIn and I hate to be on
the fence with anything I I like to be
you know taking an opinion a position we
need to do more on it anyway I'm
rabbiting on there's loads and loads out
there display networks um into including
Google's Display Network of course
because it is a separate Beast to to
search so use it as a separate thing
treat it as a separate thing
um Bing Yahoo as I said previously
Windows 10 the adoption is is going
relatively well more people are using
Bing than ever brilliant so that only
helps as advertisers because Bing's more
cost effective okay the the search
market for them is you know 10 15% of
what Google has but it's still it's a
decent chunk but um you know there are
people making living off off beinging
don't get me wrong but I would use it
just on its own if it was a a tossup
between AdWords and and being I know
which one I'd go
for uh and it's the G variety so these
ad exchanges as well which I I tooked uh
touched on earlier and content exchanges
um out brains probably the the most
well-known and cost effective uh tabula
is a bit more expensive but they have
better targeting uh anyway I'm not going
to go into too much detail cuz that's a
a whole new ball game another type of
display that doesn't use a network per
se is you know direct ad placement on
your your target um target market
website so thinking about where your
your customers hang out online what they
read what they look at what what they
what they what are they interested in
can you get an ad on that website uh be
it through Google display another
display uh Network or directly to the to
the website itself and then the the list
goes on and on for payer click and paid
ads what I'm going to do is um as I said
I'm going to do a video very soon on how
we tackle the right hand right hand side
issue which will sort of focus on
quality score mainly um because that's
the quickest win drive down your cost so
keep an eye out for that please
subscribe this is a brand new channel my
first video so you're probably looking
at it going uh um but I hope I've said a
few useful things and I'm sure I can
only become more useful with time as I
improve because this is my first video
anyway please put a few comments in
there ask any questions I am going to be
actively answering them tweet Me @ Ed
leak I'm super active on Twitter you
know just reach out to me I'd appreciate
it even just to say Ed your video is
I didn't like it um that's fine
constructive criticism always welcome
and also you can hit me up on uh did I
just say hit me up oh dear um you get
you can connect with me on LinkedIn and
uh discuss your problems
questions you know what what want me to
talk about I'm going to be doing stuff
on as I said hacking quality
score uh using the lingo and remarketing
behavioral remarketing Advanced
remarketing tactics for uh e-commerce uh
business owners and lots and lots of
other juicy things so until then if you
found this video useful uh I'd really
appreciate if you shared it thank you
very much and until the next time thanks
for watching stay tuned cheers